Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout everybody! If we haven't met, I'm Libby. I'm a Data Science
Community Manager here at Posit. I'm also a Data Science Educator. I have experience teaching R
in Python and I am based in San Antonio, Texas. If you're not familiar with Posit, Posit builds
enterprise solutions, open source tools for people to do data science with R and Python.
We're also the company formerly known as RStudio. So if you've used RStudio,
you have used Posit. We are known for things like the RStudio and Positron IDEs
and package ecosystems like Shiny and the Tidyverse. I am joined today by the creator
of the Hangout and my co-host Rachel. Rachel, would you introduce yourself?
Hey everybody, I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead Customer Marketing at Posit and I'm based in the Boston
area. I'm so excited to have Libby here taking over as full host of the Hangout, but I'll be
here behind the scenes and chatting with you all in the chat here too. Rachel's on chat duty for
sure. And as a side note about the chat today, I know the chat kind of jumps around when we all
message a bunch, but the chat is one of the best things about the Hangout and how lively it is.
So I found that one thing that might help is if you have a secondary screen, just make the chat
wider. Make that chat window slightly wider and larger and you'll experience fewer things
bouncing around. Unfortunately, I cannot help you if you are in browser. All right, well the Hangout
is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across different industries,
chat about data science leadership and really just connect with other people who are facing
similar things to us. So we get together every Thursday, same time, same place here on Zoom and
make sure that you have it on your calendar for 12 p.m. Eastern time. If you're watching this on
YouTube and you want to join us in the future live, there's going to be details right in the
description box below to add it to your calendar really easily. I want to say thank you to everybody
who has made this the friendly and welcoming space that it is today. We are all really dedicated to
keeping it that way. So if you have feedback about your experience, good stuff, bad stuff,
we want to hear from you and there's going to be a survey that pops up in Zoom afterwards. It'll
just pop up in your browser. You can also always find us on LinkedIn or Blue Sky.
At the Hangout, we love hearing from you live and it doesn't matter what your years of experience
are, your title, your industry, what languages you use or do not use as far as coding and we really
encourage you to hang out in the chat with each other. Introduce yourself, say hello, include your
role, where you're based, what you do for fun and feel free to share like your LinkedIn profile,
your website and any roles that you are either looking for or hiring for so that we can help
connect people in the community to opportunities. There are three ways to jump in and ask questions
today or to just share your own experience if you've got something to add on. That is also
something we love to hear. You can raise your hand in Zoom and we can call on you to jump in.
If you do that, it's great to have your camera on so that we can see who you are and have your real
name as your name in Zoom. You can also put questions in the chat and if you can't ask right
now because your mic is broken or you're in a loud cafe, feel free to put an asterisk next to it and
we can read it for you. But there's also a Slido where you can ask questions anonymously. Isabella
just put that in the chat for us so please, please, please hop over there and take a look at it. You
can also actually put your name on Slido questions and Slido is kind of cool because you can upvote
questions. If you see one there that you like, you can vote for it. All right, let's see. Do I have
any housekeeping today? I think that PositConf call for talks is finally closed. Yes, it closed
last Friday. Yeah, but registration. We're going through the review process and all that to get to
announce the amazing talks. But yes, registration is still open and I'll share that link in the chat
too. All right, great. I know somebody had asked me that and I was like, oh, I'm gonna have to look
at my calendar. Alrighty, well I'm so, so excited to welcome our featured leader today, John Stanton
Geddes, Senior Manager for the Advanced Analytics Marketing Team at HP Inc. John, I would love it
if you could introduce yourself, tell us a little bit about your background, what you do, what you
like to do for fun. Thanks Libby and thanks to everyone who joined. A lot of people here on
Thursday, midday. So maybe I already told you what I'm currently doing. I'll try to not make
this too long, but I'll go back to what feels like ancient history. I have a PhD in Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology from the University of Minnesota. I see some people from the Midwest
chiming in, so go Midwestern states. And I picked up a minor in statistics, kind of the equivalent
of a master's at that time. For anyone who, like a small fun factoid is that because I had a minor
in stats, I had a statistics committee member and that person's Charlie Geyer, who wrote the original
MCMC package on CRAN. I think he's still the author of the MCMC package. At the time, I barely
did anything daisy and barely understood what it is. I look back years later and I'm like horrified
how incredibly naive I was when I worked with Charlie and some of the questions I would ask him
and things I did. So, you know, my message to some of you out there who are new and you're stuck,
it's like it's okay to be clueless. Just get there, but also like pay attention to the people you're
around and what they're doing, what they think is important, because there's things I, you know,
could still probably go back and ask him that would have been helpful or will be helpful in my career.
After I did a PhD, I then moved into the genomics realm. I saw some people in the biology area here.
I was still in the ecology area, so I was actually collecting ants and crushing them up and then
analyzing RNA, which is super cool. I could talk for quite a while about ants and about RNA.
But eventually, I found myself moving away from academia and I landed in a data science position
at a small company called DR.com that did digital marketing for automotive dealerships
in Belmont, Vermont, which is where those who are just joining, which is where I'm based now.
The company, I joked I got a crash course MBA, so I came into what was kind of a late stage
startup. They had been acquired once. I was the second data scientist at the company,
so they didn't really know what data science was, which is great because I didn't either.
So, we kind of got to learn together. Then the company was acquired once. They were acquired
a second time by Cox Automotive, which is a large kind of umbrella that has a bunch of
different brands underneath it. Just fantastic for me because, again, I got wide exposure to
different areas that data science is being used. The key one was they own Kully Blue Book.
So, Kully Blue Book has been doing data science since before data science is a thing because their
core business is vehicle valuation models. So, I got to work with some really smart people from
operations research and what they call decision analysis and learn more about maybe what data
science is and should be in the industry setting. I was there for a couple of years,
industry setting. I was there for a number of years and worked on a wide range of projects.
Again, it's kind of fun about a company that size. They got to do things like building
recommendation engines for vehicle recommendation engines for auto trader.
Also got to be involved in some of the vehicle valuation work as well as in the digital
marketing space. That was a core part of the dealer.com business and auto trader.
So, I have strong opinions about paid search and Google and those types of things. That experience
eventually led me to when I looked for other alternatives, moving to HP, which is where I am now.
Job changes are good and challenging for many ways. One is that you have all this experience
that you think is great. You're going to land somewhere and then you get somewhere and you find
out, oh, all these things you think you knew are only a small part of the picture. HP is huge and
the way they do marketing is very different. There's a lot of traditional, believe it or not,
that still happens. Not the majority anymore, but there's still a lot of traditional marketing,
which is something I knew nothing about. This led me into the media mix modeling space.
The timing also there was fortunate or coincidental. This is right for people who are in
marketing or pay attention to this. A few weeks ago, Google released something called Meridian.
Facebook has had their Robin package out for a few years. So, there's a bunch of different
frameworks out there for media mix modeling. Basically, we had a head start by year two,
where we've been developing our own internal framework to do this. That helps make decisions
across the different 4P, your product, your placement, your pricing, and your promotion
levers at HP for our products. I think I'll stop there. What about what you do for fun?
Yeah, what I do for fun. I have three kids, so I'll be at a hockey game tonight, which is
fun until hockey fans start yelling at the refs and each other. I keep busy with them,
the hockey game, swimming, they're very active. Myself, I'm in Vermont, so I love skiing. I'll
be off on vacation next week and I will be out skiing. I do a lot of downhill with my kids,
but I personally prefer cross-country skiing. For those in the Northeast, I hope you all,
we have fantastic snow this year. Rachel, if you're in Boston, you should come up to Vermont
and check out the snow we have. In the warmer months of the year, I enjoy getting out on Lake
Champlain, paddleboard or kayak as well. That's awesome. In fact, I know that Rachel was just
in Vermont. I was just at Stowe last weekend and they had so much snow.
That's awesome. Fun fact about me, I've only seen snow one time. I think I was like 24,
25 and it was terrifying. For someone who'd never seen snow before, I was like, oh my gosh,
like six to eight foot snow drifts on a mountain. My husband quickly found out that I had an
irrational fear of snow. That is interesting. John, I would love to ask you about an example
of what your team works on. Your team, I take it, is global and large and works on a lot of
diverse things. Do with that what you will, but just something that can give us context around
the type of problems that you solve, the type of data that you use, that way we can form better
questions. Sure. Half the world right now is getting over a cold. My team, as you said,
we are a global team. We support marketing across HP globally. We have people,
the team's mostly in Europe and the Americas. There's people in Romania, Switzerland, France,
Spain, UK, the US, Mexico, and Colombia. I should say not all this directly on my team,
but across our group. Within our group, the digital marketing returns and analytics team,
we focus on a number of different areas. As I mentioned, a core part of what we do is what we
refer to as marketing valuation. This is developing the media mix models that we have.
We take in information on our investments across all our different activities. This could be
sponsorships. HP made a large investment in F1 with Ferrari. If there's any F1 fans out there,
go Lewis Hamilton. I know nothing about F1. I always joke about F1 scores and statistics
when they talk about it, as well as Real Madrid. That type of information, as well as Google page
search. You're very low funnel capturing people on Google, but there's also TV, there's radio,
there's connected TV. There's all sorts of different information out there. Don't forget,
as I mentioned, there's also in-store activities. Walking to a Best Buy, you're going to see
promotions there. Maybe jumping ahead, the state is extremely diverse. The data you get from an
in-store placement and the data you get from Google are very different. How do you build a
model that effectively evaluates the performance of those dollars and then helps you make
recommendations is a challenge. It's something that I was like, yeah, check, we can do this.
Years later, we're still tweaking and figuring out how to do this properly.
Because this is complicated, there's no one model that can actually solve this. There's
a whole part of the team that's focused on experimentation. As I mentioned, for in-store
placements, you can take the advantage that either you just stagger when those are launched,
or you don't do them in some stores. There's some natural experiments you can set up.
You can turn your spend off on Google. There's lots of experimentation you can do. We have a
group that's focused on experimentation. Then we also have a group that we call our algorithmic
decisioning group. They're more in the weeds in some of the specific platforms like Amazon.
Amazon is becoming a huge player in the advertising space. Something else I'm sure
we could have an interesting discussion about on consumer experience and what this means for
the future of retail on Amazon. At the end of the day, the point is, if you look, I think in their
most recent numbers, I can't remember, I think Amazon ads business made more money than,
maybe not more than AWS, but it's up there. It makes Amazon a lot of money. Obviously,
that means that if you're a company the size of HP and you're investing a lot of dollars in it,
there's a lot of opportunity for optimization. One of the things that's both exciting and
challenging about this work is one or two points of efficiency can make a big difference for
our bottom line. Right. When the numbers are that big, then small percentages are actually
pretty large numbers, right? Yeah. This is- Lots of eight cartridges.
Yeah. It's not just a classical analytical or a classical data science problem. It sounds like
it's also an optimization problem because we did media mix modeling when I was an undergrad in
decision science. Do you feel like you are hybridizing decision science or operations
research stuff and data science? Yes, absolutely. It's like someone,
maybe Rachel, someone who's got the polyglot thing behind them. Yeah. We have our models
jumping in, technical stuff. We're doing Bayesian modeling using R and Stan,
but then we have an optimization framework that's built by them.
Awesome. We have multiple models. These are
sequential and hierarchical models that gives outputs depending on the granularity of the type
of input and our confidence in that data. We take these and we use that information that we put into
optimizers to help the business make decisions. Well, I'm realizing how out of date my undergrad
experience was because a lot of our media mix modeling was all traditional, like TV, radio,
newspaper. In reality, it's a lot of digital marketing. Well, I'm curious how you got,
like just to scoot back to background stuff, how did you get from ecology, evolution,
behavior for your PhD into data science industry in general? What made you want to leave academia?
What made you want to do industry? Just curious about that decision because we have a lot of
people in our community that kind of are facing the same decision.
Yeah. So this is going to be an extreme personal question for everyone, right?
I think it's changed a lot. I'm probably pretty out of touch. This is over 10 years ago now that
I made that transition. I still keep up on scientific research. I love it. It's nothing
about research. For me, it's a very personal decision about where I lived and my family
that was an opportunity came to move into this time, very new space of data science, and it
seemed to make sense. It seemed interesting. I'm not going to say academia is a safe route.
I think one of the beauty of academia is that there's always a new research project. There's
always something different to do there. So it's always interesting, but at consequential points
in my life, I feel like I've always sought out something that I really knew nothing about.
I don't consider myself a risk taker, but I look back and I'm like, okay, when I had these
options to continue what I'm doing or jump over to HP and try to build media mix modeling
frameworks before things like Euribion existed, and now it seems much easier than where we are.
I take those decisions. And so I think part of it is looking for a challenge, constantly
challenging myself. And part of it is just that I was living in a place that I liked and I had
young kids and academia is not terribly supportive of those priorities.
Right. Yeah, no, that's very valid. A lot of academics end up having to move a lot in order to
find jobs or stay employed. And I think that's a consideration a lot of people are making.
Well, how did you gain experience in marketing then? If you went from where you were
to marketing, granted, there's tons of behavioral aspects of marketing, right?
But knowing that you use econometrics and Bayesian modeling, how did you sort of
make that jump? Yeah, I got super lucky. And it's interesting how things have changed.
I have remote work, right? I have a remote team. There's really great benefits of that. I think
the downsides, when I look back, it would be hard for me to get hired into the role I was today
because there's a much wider pool you can look for. A big shout out to this, the Posit hangout.
There used to be our user groups. Maybe they still exist somewhat. And RStudio and now Posit
did support those. There was one in Burlington. They're like RUG, right? The R user group on
Meetup or maybe somewhere else. Now, I think there's like data science hangouts locally.
There still is a somewhat active one in Burlington, Vermont, but there was a very small one.
In Burlington, and I would attend that. And when I say small, it was like three to six people
often. And there's someone there who basically, he knew enough to understand that the methodology
you're using if you're in genomics or marketing is very small, right? You have an outcome that
you want to model, you have budget data, you have low signal to noise ratio. And he was basically
able to give me a recommendation and a reference that got my foot in the door. And then, so I knew
nothing about marketing when I started. I had to learn on the job, which when you're in an office,
in person, you can turn that around and ask people dumb questions very easily. That's a
little harder to do now. I think that's something probably, not just this industry, but the whole
world has to figure out about how do you help develop people, right? How do you find smart,
talented people who don't have the experience you necessarily need and help get them to a place where
they are hoping at a job and that you're not putting all of it on everybody having the perfect
background when they apply to your recruiting system. So I took your question in a different
place. I didn't have a ton of experience. I learned from some really awesome, smart colleagues and
people. And I think that ability to learn quickly is a key asset. And finding people, right? As much
as learning, it's like finding the people who will help you. Yeah. I'm actually on a personal crusade
right now to help people get on board with giving people help in person or on Zoom instead of sending
them links. Like, hey, if somebody asks you for help, hop on Zoom and show up something and teach
them and talk with them and don't just send them a link. I'd love to sort of get back to that a
little bit, one-on-one engagement, the like shoulder tap of your friend who works next to
you to ask them how to do something. So yeah, join me in the revolution, everybody, I guess.
One thing that I would love to ask is sort of on this same line, having that experience, right?
Of like, I didn't know anything about marketing. I got into this. I got really lucky. What makes a
good marketing data science team then? Like, who do you look for when you're hiring? Do you look
for somebody with deep marketing expertise who can also code a little bit and has a little bit
of stats experience? Or do you look for somebody with deep Bayesian modeling experience who maybe
doesn't know anything about marketing, but is very curious? Yeah. So it's a great question.
And one, I think the answer is rapidly changing too, which is both, we talked about like looking
at the future and making choices that maybe go into the void, but no. And the conversation a
week or two in the hangout was about AI and AI tools, right? And, you know, for those of you
who work with Stan or anything like a relatively complicated frame, like it's hard, complicated.
Copilot is actually really good at helping you with those things. And so the barrier to me on
the coding side is starting to go down. And the people who are really effective are the people
who like in my space, you like really understand, not, I would say marketing and digital marketing
is like a marketer, like how do you structure a campaign? How do you go out and figure out
what someone needs and wants are and build creative that appeals to them? Like that's that
is that right? Right. Right. Brain, the creative side of brain, right? Like that's still like
very important to me. And by most of the people on this call, and I have a ton of respect for the
really good marketers in that sense. But the still with like the marketing and the data side,
right. If people who, and the thing about this is it's so achievable, right. You asked me how
you get there, like Google and Amazon wants you to spend money, their platforms, they have
certifications and training. And if you have some like small side project or you're on a nonprofit
for your kids hockey, like go run a meta ad campaign, you know, a couple hundred bucks,
just so you see like, what is it like? What kind of data do you get? Like, this is something I
needed years ago. So you have some hands-on experience, even if it's not on the job.
And then, because when I do interview marketing or for people for these data science roles in
marketing, the people can talk intelligently, like, oh yeah, on Amazon, if you set up an
Amazon shopping on our ads, like here's the weird things you run into, or here's the challenges.
It's so much more impressive than someone who tells me about the neural network they designed.
Now there's, the methodologies change so fast, right? And the frameworks are a dime a dozen
these days, right? Like there's a new best in class AI every month right now. And, but knowing
in a business sense, you're trying to drive business outcomes. And so knowing how, what
the data is, how to work with it, that's, what's really a differentiator.
So it sounds like mess around and find out and record your experiments is a good piece of advice,
right? Yes. Yeah. Are there any resources like books that you used that we could maybe share
in, in some resources later about marketing? You know, you'd asked me this and I, I, I actually,
and it's not terribly updated. I'll drop it in the chat, but I've made a list of, in GitHub,
in GitHub of references of free online ones over time that I found useful. And there's even a
section in there for some of the marketing ones. And I don't, I will share that with you. Let me
see if I can get it. Awesome. Well, if you don't have time now, you can always send it to me after
you email it to me and I can share it with people, but I think another, while we're talking about it,
it's not a bad idea to go, if you haven't, if you don't have any experience with digital marketing
at all, to go to someplace like SEMrush and just play around because a lot of those websites give
you the ability to just kind of put in any domain and look around at at least some data. But here,
let me put that in the chat as well. Cause it's spelled funny. There you go, SEMrush.
And there are other websites like that, right? That kind of give you a taste of that.
So I wonder if there are any like considerations that you made when you were switching from data
science, hardcore data science, cause I think you were like a straight data scientist when you came
out of academia to moving into management. Cause I think you've been in management for like eight
years now, right? For a while. Consideration. So I was an extremely supportive manager when I
made the change and I got encouraged to make the change. And so that made it easier. I would say
finding someone who's, who will support you. And that was a gradual, that it wasn't like a hard
change. I think you described it like a player manager where I did like 50%. I had my own
projects. I was still doing technical work for quite a while. I still sometimes get hands-on
involved, which is arguably a bad thing, but I like to be somewhat aware of what's happening.
I think that, I think it's probably, it's a change I would definitely tell people to be
cautious about, to be very thoughtful. Like what are you giving up? What do you enjoy? Like if you
enjoy the craft of data science, right? And the mastery of like putting together a really nice
analysis, you know, completing a nice analysis or creating a package that gets used by other people
that's in your control. And there's, there's a craft to it. There's something that's really nice
to be able to put out. And that is going to be a long time ever before AI replaces. It's going
to help you with code chunks. It's going to help you with some pieces of the work. It's not just
going to create an entire package that does what users want it to do. And, you know, managing
people's tough, right? On many sides, like hiring is extremely stressful. You're making a decision
that impacts someone's life. In fact, all the people you don't hire their life, as well as
your life as a manager in the future. And you, you know, I think it's worth spending time. Is
that something you want to do? And how much sleep are you going to lose over it? Because
at least I do. Maybe there are some managers out there who don't, but I definitely do.
Yeah. Well, I don't think we've ever had a guest talk about stress as a factor before in hiring.
And when, when I think about the prospect of being put in charge of hiring someone,
stress is the first thing I think about. So I appreciate your, your humanity there.
I wanted to call Alan in to hop in and ask his question live, because I feel like we're on that,
that topic right now. Yeah. Sorry. Finding, finding buttons.
That's okay. Everybody. Hey, John. I'm curious about adoption of the work that your team does
by all of your customers and, and what kind of either resistance or what factors made adoption
more readily doable by them. I've seen, and we've had this conversation here as well. And I've seen
it as well, different levels of sort of readiness to take data-driven decisions versus the idea that
that has a lot of legitimacy that like marketers know what works and they're resistant to things
that, that would push them to change their assumptions or their expectations and stuff
like that. So I'm curious over your time and what you've seen effective, their changes in
attitudes on their part, what has kind of, you know, made your work give it better uptake or
worse uptake over time. Yeah, that's a great question. And that's going to vary tremendously
by, you know, the company you're at and the maturity of your, your models and your data
science and, and, and not surprising. The most important thing is the relationships, right?
You have to have integrity and you have to have some accuracy. And I was lucky when I
came to HP, like there was an existing framework in place, right? There's the, like, this wasn't,
we were bringing something brand new and forcing these, these marketing teams to use them. They
were used to being able to depend on, on vendors for the most part and consultants for this
information. This is a strategic decision made to move it in house. And we, I would say it's
definitely a case where you want to have small wins. You don't want to just like disappear and
for six months and go do your work in asylum and come back and be like, here's the answer to
everything. Trust us. It's not going to work, right? It's building your case, finding situations
where you can step in and really provide help. And so there's this weird cadence to our work
where we have these, in data science, we tend to have fairly long time drivers, right? Projects
are like one to two quarters out. But there's, there are these moments where like, if you can put
in a three day spike where you like, they need to make a decision tomorrow about where that next
million dollars goes. And if you can come back and give that recommendation, back it up with data.
And I think importantly is provide one of the proof points that your recommendation worked.
So they can look through weeks later and say, oh, look, we followed the recommendations and it was
a positive outcome, right? This is what we're looking for. Then the next time you go back and
it's a $10 million one, they're not going to be like, no way are we trusting these idiots with
this decision. Like we're going with our gut, right? They're going to actually follow what
you recommend for your models. As I mentioned, we do experimentation. So it's both, right? You
have models. You can also, we try to always set something up. Like if we're making a big change
or a big bet, we frame it like, hey, here's the best knowledge we have and our best recommendation,
but we should also do an experiment to validate what we're saying here, right? The trust but
verify mentality. And I think it helps to work with data-driven people. It helps to work with
people, you know, find those people who want to be data-driven and want to work with you.
It's not true everywhere. And if you're in that situation, that's tough.
Right. Yeah. Thank you.
Thanks, Alan. Thanks, John. Kylie, I saw that you had a question,
which is also tangentially related. Would you like to ask that?
Yes. Hi, John. So my question was about the kind of data that you use and whether you use
or your team uses internal HP data and or external data. And if you encounter any challenges
when you're using internal data, just because it might be messier and things like that.
Yes. So all of the above, we have obviously a lot of internal data.
We have data that is external that we either, we get a number of sources. The best data,
not surprising, they didn't pay for, right? Because then there's someone who's providing
a value-added data service. So they have a vested interest in making it really good quality data.
So in the order of what I find the problems with data, the best data is you're paid for
from someone else. After that, it's probably the data you go out and pull from public places,
right? Like the Fred here in the US and World Bank, that type of data, weather data. We don't
use a lot of weather data, but in other fields, you might have that. And then when you get down
to internal data from your, I won't name any teams, but there's teams that manage everything
out of Excel and Windows 10. That's your worst data. Oh, come on. Yeah, definitely.
I have a quick follow-up question. How do you vet data that you buy? So if you are making a
big investment in data that is proprietary to somebody else, and you don't have all of it to
look at and tell whether or not it's actually going to be beneficial for you as future data
for what you care about, yeah, how does that work? That's a good question. I think some of it is that
there are large, well-known vendors out there that we work with. And I think there is some benefit
that if they're one of the big data vendors, there's this pretty good trust that they know
what they're doing. They, I mean, they themselves will provide some validation or some information
about the data. But I don't know if we have a good, I don't know if I have a good answer to that
more broadly. That's okay. Maybe nobody does. Just a curiosity, because I think that that's
a big investment. I know that that is, it's a large ticket item sometimes, right? Just
acquiring your data. It definitely can be. I guess that's like once you start putting it
to your models and working with it, you learn pretty quickly when you try to use it. And so
we definitely, we have data vendors in a relationship that we didn't continue, because
six months and many dollars later, you get to a point where you're like, okay,
not really seeing any value there. Awesome. Yeah. So just an iteration process. Cool. Well,
I saw a question from Santiago come in. It has an asterisk, so I'm going to read it.
And Santiago says, half my career was spent in marketing, and he loved it. And he's been
reading that companies are sort of adjusting their strategies to account for AI. For example,
ensuring that the content on their website is easily digested by agentic AI, right? So instead
of being manageable for a human person to read and digest, digestible for agentic AI, so that it
can navigate their website. So he was curious to hear your thoughts on how AI is going to affect
marketing. Too soon to say. It changes so fast. To some extent, the thing is, like,
there's always been search engine optimization, right? So you could argue this has already been
happening for years, right? People are putting in keywords and doing things on their websites
to improve their SEO, right? You're trying to reverse engineer Google's search algorithm to
get up there, right? You could argue that that was a very simple AI. And then today, right,
when you look at things like, you know, that people, I did hear statistics on, you know,
people under 20, what percent of them, if they go to get a new product, if they're just going to
Gemini or chat to your team and saying, what laptop should I buy? It's already astoundingly
high. So it absolutely will impact how marketing occurs and what's done. I think the big players
there don't fully know what to do yet. I believe it's perplexity even has like this whole shopping
thing out there. And they're trying to figure out how to monetize it. And it will change things
like slowly and then rapidly. Wow. That's really interesting. I've never used perplexity before,
but I just saw somebody posting about perplexity for market research purposes, actually. So it's
pretty topical. I know that I can go and like search Google trends and I can go see who's
Googling what. How do you tell who's GPTing things and who's using cloud for things like
is that much harder to gauge? Is that now like proprietary analytical information that you have
to buy from them? I like I said, this was a fact what I heard. I have not actually seen any data.
I'm sure I'm sure it's out there. People are it might just might have been survey based
for all. And thinking about where I heard it, it probably was like survey based information.
Mm hmm. Go ask a bunch of 18 year olds. How do you now look for a product waiting to start
doing? This is what they're answering. Interesting. Yeah. My question has no
answer, but I'm curious if anybody knows. I'd love to. I'd love to talk about that.
So I'm going to chat GPT right now. Oh, my gosh. It posts the answer for us. Rachel,
I saw that you had a question and I've already asked myself this question. So go ahead.
Yeah, I guess this is a selfish question for me because I've had a little bit more time to work
on customer stories lately. And I was just curious, John, if you could tell us a little bit
about the ways that you're using Posit team, if that's OK. Yeah. So as Rachel mentioned,
it started my nature for a while. The prior company is out. We started using deposit connect.
I guess maybe we still are. I don't know if there's our studio branded fiber deposit.
So I think we're pretty early adopters of it. And it is an invaluable tool to
be specifically the tech platform as a data science team. The biggest challenge you have,
in my opinion, actually isn't the R squared on your model. It's not. We spend lots of time
talking about data, but those are solvable problems with time, smart people and money.
The biggest problem you have is that at least for the manager of data science team is
this is that Alan's question I guess is getting the buy in from the business, right? Making sure
that what you're doing is getting used. And Excel has long been the solution there, right? Send
someone Excel file. My feelings on Excel have gone up and down over the years, refused to use
it for a number of years. Right now, like. In some ways, Excel is the ultimate data product.
Your version control your data is in there. You can build pretty impressive. You know,
the UIs I've seen built in Excel are pretty impressive. It's all falls apart, right? When
you have like really big data or complex algorithms, but often big data and complex
algorithms aren't when you get to solving a business problem, that's not the largest challenge.
But what positive allows you to do is the tech platform is to take your model to take your data
and publish it. And something looks very professional, right? You're not sending a
stakeholder an Excel file, especially with shiny and quarter dashboards or something.
We've started using very quickly that are really impressive. As well, again, anyone who knows our
Python can spin up a quarter dashboard like they can. You can go from zero to a dashboard in like
three hours, and if you can't, you probably should be in data science. And it provides a level of
polish on top of it that is is will impress stakeholders. And the big challenge there,
though, of course, is like once you have this, it looks great is, you know, you can you can
host it yourself, there's things you can do. But if you have authentication, there's all these other
issues that you have. How do you get it out there, right? And they probably Excel files,
you send an Excel file, and you find out there's a bug in your, you know, formally can't fix it,
right? If you have a dashboard you've published, you can always change it and fix it. So you don't
have to like urgently resend and don't use the last Excel, use version 2.3 Excel and people
don't remember which one. And so that's why having this publication platform is so valuable,
right? It centralizes what we do. We have a place we can publish both like what we call
a technical report. So we've like really detailed. I'm a big, big believer in version control and
pull requests and reviews in GitHub. But sometimes you don't need to go line by line by code, right?
This question about like, let me look at a table with the summary of the data.
You know, how many SKUs, how many dollars are spent, how many unit sales, and then now put like
some model up, put some charts, right? You know, that's what you need. And again, you can look at
rendered markdown files in GitHub, but it's really nice to be able to have that information connect.
And then again, if you authenticate with your company's, you know, authentication,
you can share with specific people. And
sorry, Rachel, I think I'm barely on to answer a question. That's one of the main values we have is
being able to, how do you get the products, how do you get the data information out?
There's other ways you can do this, right? There's MLOps team, there's Power BI. I want to say
there's Tableau. There's lots of ways you can do this, but a lot of those either create external
dependencies or it's limitations at some point and connect at least for a relatively skilled
mature data science team solves a lot of those problems. Yeah, I love it. As a data person,
I will tell you that I don't want any barriers between me and the person who I get to do the
thing for. I want to spend my time doing the thing. I don't want to spend a bunch of time
figuring out how to deploy it because that's not what I'm good at. Give me something where I can
push a button and create a link. Well, I saw a question from Arsenis and it kind of rolls in and
I think might cover a Slido question. So let me talk about the Slido question for a second and
I'll call you in, Arsenis. The Slido question was, how do you find people who are going to help you
get a job that fits your skills if you're not a very social person? And believe it or not,
even though I'm here every Thursday, I'm very introverted so I identify with this.
And I know Arsenis' question was about sort of non-technical attributes. So Arsenis,
are you available to unmute and ask? Yeah, awesome. I sure am. Hi Libby. Thank you.
Thank you all for being here. Thank you, John, for joining us today. My question is around
the attributes of a potential, of a candidate for a role that you might be interested in hiring
that are non-technical that you look for. And I'm wondering specifically about attributes that you
believe might supplement the technical skills as well as those that might be independent from
the technical skills, things you look for anyway, no matter what their tech skills are and all that.
So, yeah. As I said, hiring is stressful and really hard and I actually just don't feel
qualified to answer. And I think, I've also been fascinated by this, right? And I think there's
probably more, there probably are people with MBAs who do, who look at hiring patterns and what
people look for. We have a team of people who work to focus on recruiting to help. And so I
rely heavily on other people to try to avoid my own bias and other biases we might have. I've gone
through a number of different, the technical skills are still the most important part, right?
So there's various ways you can do a technical assessment, whether there's tools like Hacker
Rank or providing people with case studies. My least favorite is like the dropping a technical
question on someone in Zoom and like solve this, you know, sharing your screen. I've seen that
happen. I've done it and I apologize. I think that's a horrible way to assess someone. But the
other aspects are tricky and like, because sometimes there might be someone who I like,
I don't, yeah, like, you know, people are very different and it, and you don't want it like,
it shouldn't interfere with the ability. If it doesn't interfere with the ability to get their
job done, it doesn't fully matter. So I guess I'll just reiterate, like, I don't have a great
answer for that. From a hiring perspective, what I rely on a panel of people and recruiters to help
assess some of those other qualities, right? So it's not just me. And an important part is frankly,
someone's resume as well, right? Like what else are they doing in their life? What experiences
do they have? What interests do they have? And let that come through, you know, in a screening
call or at other times. I think you said there's a comment about being kind of a, how do you
connect as an introvert or make these connections? In this, in this space, I think there's two
things. I think meetups like this, best is in person, but even like a virtual one like this,
I think is a really good way to figure out what's going on, get some exposure, things you might not
know about and, and hopefully make some contacts. In-person is better. You can find some of these
in-person contacts and connections. And, and then I think side projects, I think like those are
under evaluated. Any artist you talk to is going to have their, their photographer's going to have
their portfolio online or an artist is going to have some information about their art online. So
if you're really looking for that change and you've got some time, like invest in your side projects
and, and put those on GitHub or get that out there in such a way. Referencing Quarto again,
Quarto makes it super easy to make a website, you know, like make a website featuring your side
stuff. And then that passion will show through no matter how introverted you might be. Like passion
is obviously something I look for. If someone's really passionate about, you know, bowling
statistics and has a website about their bowling league, they've tracked all the stats and they
can talk to me about it for a while in the interview. Like, I think that's great. I think
that person will be able to translate that passion to their work, even if it's not bowling.
Yeah. I love that a lot of your focus for this answer was just avoiding your own biases because
it shows such a level of self-awareness that I think is really rare. Sometimes someone might
just answer and say, I look for X, Y, Z, but there's more nuance to it than that. Right. So
I really appreciate that. And I also kind of wonder, I don't know if you have any experience
with this, but is there any sort of advice you can give people for overcoming imposter syndrome
or feelings of inadequacy that they might have when they're trying to connect virtually or in
person or they're trying to figure out whether or not they belong in a community or a space?
Yeah. Friends and kids. You're always going to feel like, you know, don't look for your
validation from work. Like friends, family and kids are where I get my validation at work. I
just show up to do the job to the best I can. Yeah. I think that my only advice there is
maybe realize that imposter syndrome is not a personal failing, but realize that it's probably
just a reasonable response to your experiences in your life and seeing a lack of representation of
yourself maybe in certain spaces. And so if you can be brave and enter those spaces, you'll know
that you're providing representation for other people who are like you. And maybe that can give
you some courage. All right. We have 10 minutes left. Thank you. Sometimes this hour goes by so
quickly that I can't quite believe that the clock says 50 minutes after the hour. And we have several
more questions that I would love to try to squeeze in. Let me try to get at least one in here from
our attendees. Let's see. I see Senal, you asked a question. Are you available to ask it live?
Yeah, sure. Yeah. Thanks so much. Yeah. Sorry. I live in Annapolis. It's super cold day today, so I
bundled up. John, thank you so much for the talk. It's super engaging. I moved to data science from
Digital Marketing Agency, and it's like they've done all those Google Ads and Microsoft Ads and
all of those things. There is a huge drive at this moment, data privacy, especially in European Union
and Google's browsers, and it's cookie consent and so on. And most of the digital marketing
initiative heavily relying on cookies. I just wanted to pick your brain, like what's your future
expectation regarding user trackings? And it's going to be new technologies coming up to replace
the cookies or how the advertisers will take a better understanding and capturing quality data
from the users. Yeah. So that's a tough question to answer in a few minutes. You're right. These
privacy regulations are coming in, and because HP is global, a lot of business in the EU, we're very
forward focused on this. So they're trying to avoid, even if those things are still legal in
parts of the United States, trying to avoid those things. So from a technology perspective,
there's a lot of stuff out there. If you look at like LiveRamp, they have their ID resolution,
their network. Cleanrooms are this new thing, the technology is getting dangled out there.
So they're privacy compliant. And so Google has their Ads Data Hub, cleanroom technology. I can't
remember what Meta calls their cleanroom. Amazon's got a cleanroom, so there's lots of cleanroom
technology out there. I'm a little bit of a cynic, so I'm not saying I'm often wrong
about things too, but my grandfather, I have to get a family reference in, he was a very
avid fisherman. And I remember one time he made a statement that stuck with me for many years, which
is the fishing lure has to catch two suckers, and the first one has to walk into the bait shop.
And that's what I feel about a lot of these technologies. Who are they selling these
technologies to? It's marketers, it's data people like, oh, I just have this ID resolution, I can
perfectly track my audience. But a lot of these things, do they actually work or not? Are they
providing incremental value? We don't know. We want to think they do, so we set up experiments,
we run models that show us like, hey, Amazon ads have this great incrementality and this super high
row ads. But if someone's on Amazon, they're already in market, they've already typed in,
searched fishing lure. So were they going to buy if you ran the ad? Not anyway. Amazon's not going
to make it easy for you to figure that out because you're paying them money for that slot. So I don't
know what the future there is. And perfect targeting, I think, often actually just
captures somebody who's already super low in the funnel. They already made a purchase decision,
and maybe you're capturing them at that decision point. They're like flip-flopping between two
brands and you're capturing them. So to try to close my rambling answer here, right back to my
evolution days, I was thinking like levels of selection. So if you are a retailer and there's
two shoe stores in the street next to each other, that ad to draw the person into your store is
super valuable, right? Because otherwise they go to the other store and you get zero. But if you're
a brand, if you're Ford or Coca-Cola or HP, you don't necessarily care. You do a little bit,
maybe there's different margins, but which store it sells as long as they're buying your product.
So some of these like very targeting audience-based marketing methodology,
I'm not convinced that the technology is doing what we think it's doing.
I love that answer. I kind of added my own perspective in the chat too. It's like more and
more people are using ad blockers and VPNs just by default. So how do you even know that you're
seeing all the people who are on your site or what they're clicking and when? And it's hard to know.
So just a big moving target. This has been such an interesting conversation. I want to
capture our last five minutes to ask you just a little bit of career advice. Like what's a
piece of career advice that you have found really helpful for you or that you have given out to
others? Yeah, so I think I partially gave one earlier, but I'll reinforce it, which is
in business, I've never heard someone talk about like adjacencies, right? Like a business strategy
always look like, what's that adjacent space to move into? So if you're 3M, you have scotch tape,
and then they have scotch guard and all these scotch things, right? So as an individual,
you should do that as well. You asked about when I moved from academia to being a data scientist,
like I somewhat joke, but I think it probably a little bit seriously, like the thing that
nailed me the interview is knowing how to use GitHub and version control, because I was at
a company that had one data scientist, a bunch of software engineers. And like I was the person
that showed up, I was like, oh yeah, yeah, version control. I know how to use this thing. And so it
became this common parlance for us. It was not used in academia heavily at all. Maybe it is now
more so in labs. At the time it wasn't, I used it because I like majorly screwed up an analysis,
and I couldn't recreate some code. And so I was like, how do I prevent this mistake from happening?
And so I found this thing I could use, and it took a little work and it's a little bit weird,
but you know, like was my postdoc advisor happy that I spent probably more time than I want to
admit learning how to use it? If he knew it, probably not, but it benefited me down the road,
right? So there are these things you can do. Today, frankly, it's probably playing with some
different AI tools that are out there. Learning how to use something like Cordo. I saw some people
comments about it. Cordo is amazing. Use it. Learn how to use that, even if it's not directly
relevant to what you're doing. So I think learning those adjacent skills to what you're doing and
keeping out of the space, personal connections, meeting people, figuring out what else is out
there is still invaluable. I did see some research about what percent of jobs come through
recommendations. So building those networks is really important. And you can do this today with
LinkedIn and online and some, you know, referencing back to what I said earlier, you can do that.
And, you know, I'll first like those passion projects, like find those things you're excited
about that you can work on. Yeah. And join the Data Science Hangout and come hang out with people
in the chat. Introduce yourself. And my biggest suggestion is to go find the people that you are
connecting with in the chat here on LinkedIn and actually message them and talk to them and ask
them questions. Get together on Zoom. There are so many people that I'm looking at on this call
that I've met on Zoom just before, you know, before I even hosted the Hangout. So go do that.
All right. Well, I'm so excited that everybody joined us today. Thank you so much for hanging
out with us. Thank you so much to John for sharing all of your experience with us, to Rachel and the
crew behind the scenes. And I wanted to let everybody know that next week we're going to
have Blake Abinanti. Hopefully, Blake, I'm saying your name right. Director of Analytics and Data
Science at Suffolk Construction. So join us next week. Same time, same place. Have a wonderful day, everybody. Bye.